---
title: Malicious Forms
date: 2022-06-14 20:39 +0200
categories: [Hunting, M365]
tags: [m365, hunting, false positive]
---

Today we investigate a very interesting story.
A user told us, he noticed his account was sending [Microsoft Forms](https://forms.office.com/) to internal people, and
he believes he did not do
that.

## The Alert

Usually when a user tells us that their account is used to send out phishing, it's very likely true positive.
So we went ahead and checked this asap.
But it got worse, the Mail was proven to be sent intra-org from a company IP, red alert in my opinion.
Before going crazy, I made my own form and tried to figure out if there is a way from within forms to send mails, nope

Hunting Query:

````powershell
let time_span = datetime(2022-06-14T00:00:00);
EmailEvents
| where Timestamp between (time_span .. (time_span + 1d))
| where SenderFromAddress == "userA@company.domain"
| where RecipientEmailAddress == "userB@company.domain"
````

## Hunting deeper

Now we definitely needed to go deeper, because this feels like a major breach.
The only explanation would be someone got credentials and MFA from a person, logged into their VPN, and then from there
started sending malicious MS Forms. Scary!

So first I started hunting for the form name through all M365 I had

Hunting Query:

````powershell
search in ( * ) "Formname"
| order by Timestamp asc
````

This gave me some very strange results, there are multiple forms going around with same and similar names but multiple
form IDs.
OK so far so useless, so I added time to the equation

````powershell
let time_span = datetime(2022-06-14T00:00:00);
search in ( CloudAppEvents ) "Formname"
| where Timestamp between (time_span .. (time_span + 1d))
| order by Timestamp asc
````

This gave me one form with one ID to focus on.
After some time of being clueless I checked the form ID against the URL sent in the email, hard match!
Finally, something to focus on.

````powershell
let time_span = datetime(2022-06-14T00:00:00);
search in ( * ) "FORMID"
| where Timestamp between (time_span .. (time_span + 1d))
| order by Timestamp asc
````

So far so good, the user opened the form somewhere in the morning, and then sent mails in the afternoon.
But when I remove the timespan and focus on the last 30 days, I notice something peculiar.
Another user, which was the recipient of the "phishing" mail, was the user who built that form with that exact ID

so the flow actually looks something like this:
{% include mermaid_start.liquid %}
flowchart TD;
userA --> |CreateForm| form1Create[May 21, 2022 11:47:33 AM] --> form1;
userB["userA@company.domain"] -->|mail logs| mailTime[14.06.22 16:25 UTC+2] -->|mail| userA["userB@company.domain"];
CloudAppEvents -->  |ViewRuntimeForm| viewTime[Jun 14, 2022 12:30:46 PM];
viewTime --> form1[FORMID];
form1 --> userA --> |create mail| createTime2[Jun 14, 2022 4:24:58 PM] --> |send mail| mailTime;
{% include mermaid_end.liquid %}

## Verdict

Let's be honest here, it feels like a very strange pattern.
Two users would have to be compromised, and not even close to each other in time.
Of course possible, but a huge overkill of an attack, I will check this with the owner of the form, but I think all is
OK
Special side note, M365 features are chaos, it's possible that the user was able to somehow automatically send Form
fillout requests without noticing

| Indicator                      | Thoughts                    | Verdict |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------|---------|
| User notices misuse of account | Very sus                    | +40%    |
| Mail is sent from company IP   | High alert                  | +60%    |
| Form created by someone else   | Very unusual attack pattern | -50%    |

**Verdict: False Positive**

## Next Steps

Check the form closer for phishing behaviour
